# Machine-Learning-for-Squat-Analysis-and-Correction

A squat is defined as an exercise in which a standing person lowers to a position in which the torso is erect and the knees are deeply bent and then returns to its original upright position. Squats are one of the most nuanced exercises. Each person will have a different type of squat as different individuals having their own unique length of limbs will cause their form to vary when observed. We also see that the mobility of different joints contributes to this, as well as the strength of their muscles. To assess  each  person  uniformly  and  fairly,  we  introduce  our  model  that  takesinto  consideration  the relative distance travelled of each significant joint of their bodies to move such that they achieve their own  version  of  a  perfect  squat.  Hence  in  this  project  we  plan  to  use  machine  learning  to  analyze whether  the  person  doing  thequat  is  doing  to  the  best  of  their  abilities  according  to  their  body proportions. If there is room for improvement, then we attempt to identify where they can improve by visually showing the trainee their position versus their ideal position.The goal ofthis project is to analyze people's form while performing squats and compare it to the ideal form of squats according to their body type. The aim is to help beginners correct and monitor their form to improve their progress. To achieve this, the project will use python and its libraries such as TensorFlow, PyTesseract and other machine vision modules. The project builds on existing work in  the  field  of  machine  vision  using  MATLAB  to  recognize  and  perform  motion  analysis  of compound exercises. The expected outcome of this project is to create a  program or interface that can take a video as an input and give an output as a video with the skeleton of the ideal squat. This will enable beginners to monitor their form and improve their progress in squat exercises.
